---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_class_name: green
---

# Introduction

## Purpose of Document
Evoke, created by the World Bank in 2010, is an online alternate education reality game designed to engage players in complex global issues, such as food security, energy, and immigration. By immersing players in real-world challenges faced by communities around the globe, the game aims to inspire the next generation of social innovators and problem solvers. Through a combination of narrative, missions, and collaborative problem-solving, players (“agents”) learn about these critical topics while being encouraged to develop innovative solutions in teams. The ultimate goal is not only to educate but to also catalyze positive social change in the real world through the actions and initiatives inspired by the game.

In a diverse digital ecosystem, integrating and sustaining a game world across multiple platforms presents a unique set of challenges and opportunities. The Evoke Hub emerges as the foundational backbone designed to bridge these challenges, providing consistent and seamless support to the expansive Evoke game world. As the Evoke universe sprawls across various platforms, including Moodle, WordPress, and the dynamic Godot game engine, it requires an intricate fusion of inter-platform communication, data integrity, and real-time adaptability.

For technologists and developers familiar with the intricacies of game development and platform integration, understanding the mechanics of The Evoke Hub is important. At its heart, it's a centralized solution, designed to harmonize APIs, synchronize data streams, and ensure that the immersive experience of the Evoke game world remains unbroken, irrespective of the underlying platform. In the following sections, we delve deeper into the architectural nuances, API interactions, and the myriad of technical strategies that empower The Evoke Hub to be a centralized provider of a federated Evoke ecosystem.

## Scope
The Evoke Hub is conceptualized as a holistic backend solution tailored specifically for the Evoke game world, ensuring its seamless functioning across Moodle, WordPress, and the sophisticated Godot game engine. At its essence, the objective is to bridge the operational gaps between diverse platforms, from e-learning modules in Moodle to web interfaces in WordPress, and the intricate mechanics of the Godot game engine. To achieve this, the architectural strategy hinges on the development of robust and responsive APIs, designed for dynamic data interchange, synchronization, and real-time updates.

A technical cornerstone in this integration process is the harmonization of data. Given the platform diversity, it's imperative to maintain consistent data structures and formats, fostering platform-agnostic operations. This approach simplifies the rendering of dynamic game elements uniformly across platforms and ensures player data—including achievements, progress, and real-time events—synchronizes flawlessly. Beyond gameplay, there is a heightened emphasis on unified user management, emphasizing streamlined authentication and single sign-on capabilities.

Yet, while ensuring gameplay fluidity, it's equally vital to underscore security and compliance. The Evoke Hub employs rigorous encryption protocols, ensuring that user data is not only transferred seamlessly but also safeguarded with utmost integrity. GDPR and other data protection norms stand at the forefront of our compliance strategies. Furthermore, the entire integration process is set to undergo testing phases, encompassing unit, integration, and user acceptance tests. This ensures that the Evoke game experience remains unbroken and immersive, regardless of the chosen platform. Accompanying this integration journey, detailed technical documentation will provide a roadmap for API interactions, data schema understanding, and potential troubleshooting, ensuring stakeholders remain well-informed and equipped. The overarching aim remains clear: to offer an unmatched, integrated gaming experience, rooted in technical precision and user engagement.

## Target Audience
The primary target audience of this technical document is a composite of individuals deeply ingrained in the technical and strategic facets of the Evoke ecosystem. Foremost are the software engineers, integration specialists, and system architects who are at the coalface of developing, deploying, and maintaining the Evoke game world across platforms like Moodle, WordPress, and the Godot game engine. Their expertise ranges from the granular intricacies of specific platforms to broader challenges associated with harmonizing data and functionalities across diverse systems.

Beyond the hands-on technical experts, this document is invaluable to project managers and technical leads orchestrating the multi-faceted integration process. Their role is pivotal in ensuring that the technical implementations seamlessly dovetail with the strategic objectives of the Evoke project. Additionally, given the global reach and significance of the Evoke initiative—managers overseeing campaigns in various countries, the World Bank Group, and donors and partners—form a crucial segment of the audience. Understanding the technical underpinnings, even at a high level, aids in making informed decisions, gauging project viability, and determining the allocation of resources. Through this document, all stakeholders, whether technical or strategic, gain a holistic perspective on how The Evoke Hub aims to elevate the Evoke game world's experience and impact.
